---
title: "4th week: Blocks with ROS2 (laser & cam)."
last_modified_at: 2022-05-14T18:53:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - ROS Foxy
  - Visual Circuit
youtubeId_cam: a5J6Qccc5xk
youtubeId_laser: eKhDcKt7zGQ
---

On the forth week we decided to continue the TFG by working on making new blocks, using ROS2 to focus everything on robot use for visualcircuit.

I had 3 ideas in mind: laser sensor, camera sensor and motor driver.

For all this blocks to work, I needed to unistall ROS noetic and install [ROS2 foxy](https://docs.ros.org/en/foxy/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html).

When I had all the environment working, I had to start developing those blocks. I used some code examples on visualcircuit to start. There is a ROS camera block, so I had to modify it to use ROS2 instead. [Here](https://github.com/RoboticsLabURJC/2022-tfg-david-tapiador/new_blocks/ROS2/camera/CameraROS2.py) is the final code of the camera node. Here is an example of the CameraROS2 block working:

{% include youtubePlayer.html id=page.youtubeId_cam %}

Also I worked on the laser block using ROS2. There is no ROS (noetic) block for a laser, so I had to make it from 0. There were some problems with the wires that shared the information between the different blocks, and the information I was sharing didnt reach the next block properly, but some of the people working on visualcircuit are trying to solve those problems. [Here](https://github.com/RoboticsLabURJC/2022-tfg-david-tapiador/new_blocks/ROS2/laser/laserROS2.py) is the final block for the laser. I also created a simple code [block to print](https://github.com/RoboticsLabURJC/2022-tfg-david-tapiador/new_blocks/ROS2/laser/laser_data_printer.py) in the shell some information about the laser shared by the wire. In the next video I show the problem and the final block:

{% include youtubePlayer.html id=page.youtubeId_laser %}
 
On the next weeks I will try to make the motor block and see if my partners solve the problem with the wires!